[Music]
mermaids the truth behind the myth one
of the interesting things about legends
is that they often seem almost
believable I mean how can entirely
different parts of the world describe
seeing the exact same thing for
centuries is it so ridiculous to ask are
mermaids real did or do these half-human
half-fish mythical sea creatures really
exist do they look like the red-haired
Beauty Disney introduced to the world in
1989 or are they a little less glamorous
believe it or not scientists and
historians have been interested in the
mermaids existence for years in today's
video we're turning to their research to
find out the truth but before we dive
into the legendary world of mermaids be
sure to click the subscribe button and
bring that notification belt so that
you'll always be the first to see all
the newest updates coming out daily on
the bright side of life the
merriam-webster dictionary describes the
mermaid as a fabled marine creature with
the head and upper body of a woman and a
tail of a fish it has a male counterpart
the Merman and both have made plenty of
appearances in books comics cartoons and
movies the most popular of which for our
generation is of course Disney's lovely
Ariel in the Little Mermaid but this
cartoon was an adaptation of a fairy
tale written by Danish author Hans
Christian Andersen in 1837
however in Anderson's The Little Mermaid
we don't get a happily ever after ending
but a tragic one sorry to ruin your
childhood anyway going back to our
current topic The Little Mermaid isn't
the first story that opened our eyes
to the world of merfolk the first
mermaid according to legends is at
tardik is the ancient syrian goddess of
the sea she didn't start out as a
mermaid though she was once a powerful
priestess who like the little mermaid
fell in love with a human
but his mortal body couldn't handle her
divine powers in bed and he died she
became pregnant with his baby and she
never could move on from the death of
her beloved after a target is gave birth
to the child she decided to drown
herself in the ocean but the gods took
pity on her because of her exceptional
beauty and turned her into a mermaid to
this day she's revered as the goddess of
fertility protection and well-being for
those who worship her and then there's
iya
the Mesopotamian god of water wisdom
magic and creation he was a merman and
what's his backstory according to the
legend aaaahhhhhh saved humanity which
he'd created himself from a flood sent
by the god and lil and lil wanted to
destroy the people because their
noisiness kept him from sleeping whoa
overreact much this was told in the
Babylonian myth called Atrahasis and the
epic of gilgamesh like most legends that
of the mermaid spans across cultures in
Japanese folklore
there's the minge o which is a giant
fish with a human face and a monkey's
mouth if you can get over its monstrous
appearance it's believed that adding
ninja to your diet will give you eternal
youth and beauty
you'll just be cursed after consuming
one is all no big deal in most parts of
Africa they have mama whatta which is
derived from the English mommy water if
you're on her good side she'll choose
you as a medium for her special powers
if not well you'll be fed to the fishes
they've always got a catch don't they
the female marrows of Ireland are
beautiful with long green hair the
male's not so much marrows have to wear
something called a KO fooling druid
which is a magical cap that helps them
live underwater in Russia they have the
rusalka a water nymph in slavic
mythology that's been portrayed as both
good
evil in the lighter version the rusalka
mermaids will believe to be kind and
help water the crops the darker side of
the myth is that they were girls who
died in cruel ways and they dragged
their victims to a watery death in
Norway and parts of Scotland they have
the Finn folk who were shapeshifters of
the sea they have an affinity for silver
and tempt to make humans their slaves
the inuit also have a fair share of
mermaid stories particularly the tail of
the Sedna she's the guardian spirit of
the inuit and the mother of all sea
mammals the Caribbean islands and other
parts of the Americas are home to a
water spirit called placer derives from
the French lassie hen meaning the
mermaid and on a related note
linguistically we can't forget the
sirens of Greek mythology beautiful on
the outside and deadly on the inside
these famous mermaid light creatures had
a faceoff with Odysseus and his crew in
Homer's The Odyssey
luckily Odysseus and his men managed to
come out with their lives by stuffing
wax into their ears so they couldn't
hear the seductive and hypnotic singing
of the sirens but mermaids aren't just a
thing of ancient legends the hype
continues even today unconfirmed and
probably false sightings have been
reported all over the world in the past
years in 2013 Animal Planet added fuel
to the fire when they made a fictional
documentary titled mermaids the body
found that racked up 3.6 million views
this only proves that people's
fascination with these mythical sea
creatures still hasn't wavered even in
the 21st century Animal Planet's stunts
although they were open and honest about
the fact that it was all made up isn't
the first one in 1842 PT Barnum created
a fake mermaid by sewing together the
head and torso of a monkey and a tail of
a fish as part of his circus show he
called it the Fiji mermaid and claimed
that had been caught near the Fiji
Islands thousands of people fell for it
and it still considered one of the
greatest mermaid hoaxes of all time
one thing's for sure no one has actually
seen met or caught a real mermaid alive
or not even Christopher Columbus's
mermaid sighting in 1493 was debunked by
experts he described what he saw as not
so beautiful as they are said to be for
their faces have some masculine traits
so what had Columbus really witnessed
back then historians for Cloris and
scientists are convinced that it wasn't
a mermaid what Columbus actually spotted
was a manatee yep it was just a case of
mistaken identity some older species
like the extinct Steller's sea cow were
known to go up to 33 feet long however
today's manatee and its indo-pacific
cousin the dugong only get to about nine
to ten feet long and here's a fun fact
manatees and dugongs which belonged to
the scientific class Suren ian are
closely related to elephants plus
they're the only marine mammals that are
strictly herbivores
so how on earth could Columbus make that
big of a mistake well from afar manatees
are about the size of a human their
front flippers could resemble an arm
from a distance and their neck vertebrae
allow them to turn their heads around
like we do plus they're round heads and
protruding nose and whiskers could be
mistaken for a man especially one with a
moustache and marine biologist dr. James
Powell who has studied and observed
manatees for over 30 years
totally agrees according to him with the
right lighting and angle a manatees head
does look like a person's plus for
lonely sailors deprived of human contact
for so long when they saw the flat
mermaid-like tail of manatees doing tale
stands in the distance they can easily
take it for the mythical sea creature to
further solidify this theory even the
suspected mermaid skeleton discovered on
the island of Mombasa and brought to
Portsmouth to be investigated by the
philosophical Society was later found to
be that of a dugong the findings were
published in the magazine of natural
history in 1830 now let's consider the
question of whether or not their unique
body structure could even function the
short answer is that it's impossible the
human part of the mermaid wouldn't be
able to withstand a life in the cold
oceanic waters that is not unless
mermaids have a thick layer of hair like
sea otters or blubber like other marine
mammals evolutionarily speaking humans
and fish have branched out into two
entirely different species this means
that a mermaid can't have the best of
both worlds even reproducing would be
more complicated do they give birth like
humans or lay eggs like fish how do they
digest their food a person's digestive
system is nothing like that of a fish
physiologically merging the two just
wouldn't work
but who knows maybe they really are out
there and we just haven't found them yet
I mean it's possible when you consider
the fact that according to the US
National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration more than 80% of our
ocean is unmapped unobserved and
unexplored but so far the only evidence
of mermaids points to a case of mistaken
identity they're nothing more than sea
cows for the time being mermaids remain
fictional characters and a favorite
mythical subject to discuss what about
you do you believe mermaids could exist
tell us in the comments don't forget to
give this video a like and share it with
your friends if you've enjoyed it be
sure to subscribe and join us on the
bright side of life
[Music]